Moo3Readme file for Gerra's Patches included with the UOP Vanilla V1.6 Mod.

This folder contains Gerra's patches only - no mods.

To use a patch, run the .exe file.  A small window will appear with a short description of what the patch does.
At the end of the Target File line is a button with '...' this allows you to select the filepath.
You may also choose to backup the moo3.exe prior to patching (or not).
Make sure the filepath is correct and press Start.  That's it.

Some of the patches require additional files.  They are included in the proper directory but may need to be renamed.
As always, check first.
See Patch Descriptions for locations and/or other instructions.
***Patch Descriptions***

Moo3_2ndbudgetcappatch.exe
This patch will cap your budgeting sliders to the total available budget.

Moo3_Combat_Resizer_Patch.exe
Instead of zooming , the scrollwheel will magnify or reduce the size of your combatships with a third per click.

Moo3_Combatzoom_Range_Patcherv2.exe
This patch increases the zoom boundaries during combat view and decreases the rotation angle to include a sideview.Makes it able to zoom further in and out (second version to correct you from being upsidedown in combat).

Moo3_empire_revealer.exe
This patch will make visible all competing empires with names , race and icon specifics in your history screen.
It won't show their graphs and numbers however until you gain dimplomatic relations.

Moo3_galaxyrotator_unpatcher.exe
Will unpatch the galaxyrotation patch.

Moo3_population_score_scaler.exe
This patch follows up on the Y-scaling extension in your history screen.Here it modifies the base scaling of the population and score graphs to have an appropriate view while using standard Y-scaling.

Moo3_Survivor_Victory_Condition_Patcher.exe (Requires Moo3Settings.ini with changes listed below)
Instructions :  Create a file Moo3Settings.ini with an entry LastTurn= (turnnumber).  Or modify the existing one.  Must go in same folder as Moo3.exe.  After applying this patch , you're empire will end as survivor after this number of turns into the Endgame screen .

Moo3_UI_difficulty_patcher.exe
This patch adds Galaxy screen info according to the set difficulty:
starnames at hard
all fleets at medium
starlanes at easy setting

Moo3_Wait_Screen_Remover_Patch.exe
This patch 'removes' the in-between background , you will therefore have a good view of all the galaxy fleet movements, especially during autoruns.

Moo3AUdisplaypatch.exe
This patch changes the treasury balance display at the top bar from the total balance figure (balance + income) to just the balance figure at the start of the cycle. This has a more direct relation to the estimated increase following it and what you have.

Moo3AutorunTrainerV2.exe
For use with Moo3 version 125
Alt-Tab during the game to change the turn value.
Use Alt-A to autorun.
Use Alt-0 to toggle the autorun during the game.

Moo3budgetsliderpatcher.exe
This patch will cap the budget spending sliders total amount to the amount in the imperial coffers minus maintenance costs.

Moo3combatscalepatcher.exe (Requires Moo3Settings.ini)
This patch introduces a scaling variable 'spcmbtscalefactor' into the Moo3settings.ini file.  Must go in same folder as Moo3.exe.  Set it between 0-100 to increase the size of your ships during combat.

Moo3galaxyrotatorpatch.exe
Will make the rotation at a slow speed of your galaxy display as default.

Moo3groundcombattextfixer.exe (Requires Radioshowtags.txt)
Place Radioshowtags.txt here:  ...\GameDataSets\Classic_01\GameData\Common\Spreadsheets.
This patch will fix and/or enable the groundcombat textsequences for tables : textintro, textbylistener, textbyopponent, textwinlose, textbyspecies, textbyunit and textbyresults.

Moo3HistoryScale_Patch_Unpatcher.exe
Undoes History Scale Patch.

Moo3HistoryScale_Patcher.exe
Increases the upper bound on the history scale to 100 instead of 6.

Moo3RotateNewDesign_Patch.exe
This patch will make use of the 'Shostakovich' easter egg to let the shipdesigns rotate around 3 axis after confirmation of a new design.

Moo3SchedulerZerotime_Patch.exe
This patch allows you to select zero seconds in the options for your combat scheduler , effectively choosing to automatically cede your tactical battles.

Moo3Shipgraphicsquality_patch.exe
Adds the feature that by increasing your combat graphics quality in the options screen to HIGH, the game makes use of the high quality, bigger ship models.

Moo3Speederpatch.exe
Reduces an internal waitstate from 50 to 1 ms, increasing performance.

Moo3transportdesignunlockerpatch(beta).exe
This patch will display the original transport design in your shipdesign window for the Transport, Colony and Outpost designs (Beta).

Moo3Turnperturn_Patcher.exe
This patcher uses the 'Turn per turn' setting to have your game advance X turns per turn when your auotrun is set to X. (this setting is not saved so it can be changed during games).

NoGridPatch.exe
Starts combat without a grid.

RemoveNoGridPatch.exe
Removes the Nogrid patch.

UIelements.exe
Will un-hide the UI editor.

ZeroAIPlyerMod.exe
Ctrl-Alt-N removes all computer players except the New Orions.